# jslib.k6.io

[jslib.k6.io](http://jslib.k6.io), hosted utility libs for k6 scripts.

To make life a little easier during development, make sure to install the following:

- node >= 11.2.0
- yarn >= 1.13.0

> [!IMPORTANT]  
> We don't accept external contributions containing minified code for this project. For such cases, we expect the maintainer who reviewed the source code to distribute the changes. The distribution should usually happen after merging the pull request in the sub-project. If that didn't happen, please open [a new issue](https://github.com/grafana/jslib.k6.io/issues).

## How to add a new JS package

1. Create a new branch from the `main` branch.
2. Create a new lib dir `/lib/{lib_name}`
3. Create a new version dir `/lib/{lib_name}/{desired_version}/`
4. Add an entry file `/lib/{lib_name}/{desired_version}/index.js`
5. Add the lib to `supported.json` (see example below):

```javascript
{
  "{lib_name}": {
    // Available package versions
    "versions": [
      "{desired_version}"
    ],

    // (optional) Documentation's or repository's URL
    "docs-url": "{documentation_or_repository_url}",

    // (optional) As a default, the homepage will point to
    // a package's bundle's index.js. If your package's main
    // bundle name is different; set it here (see the AWS
    // package for instance).
    "bundle-filename": "{index.js}"
  }
}

// Example result
{
  "awesome-lib": {
    "versions": [
      "2.0.3",
      "2.1.2"
    ],
    "docs-url": "https://github.com/example/jslib",
    "bundle-filename": "main.js"
  }
}
```

6. Add test cases in `/tests/basic.js` and `/tests/testSuite.js` to ensure that the added lib is importable and runnable by k6.
7. Update the homepage by running `yarn run generate-homepage`.
8. Verify that the new homepage `/lib/index.html` is legit (Quickly done by running `yarn run verify-homepage`).
9. Create a PR.
10. Get a review from maintainers of the repository.
11. Merge it to main (This will push the updates to S3).
12. Browse to https://jslib.k6.io/{lib_name}/{desired_version}/index.js and verify that everything works as expected.

## Add a JS package that requires bundling

Running `yarn run bundle $pkgName@pkgVersion` will try to run webpack bundling on the file located at `/lib/$pkgName/$pkgBundle/index.src.js`.\
If all goes well, you'll get a bundle file `index.js` alongside the "src file".
If there is already a file named `index.js` at the given path, you will be asked to _override or exit_.

When running this command, there will also be an option to run babel transpile on the bundle.

```sh
# Example

yarn run bundle url@1.0.0
```

## How to add a new version of an existing package

1. Create a new branch from the `main` branch.
2. Create a new "version dir" in `/lib/{lib_name}/{desired_version}/`
3. Add entry file for version `/lib/{lib_name}/{desired_version}/index.js`
4. Add the version to `supported.json` like:

```javascript
{
  "my-lib": [
    "1.0.2",
    // Use semantic versioning
    "{desired_version}"
  ]
}

// Example result
{
  "my-lib": [
    "1.0.2",
    "2.0.3"
  ]
}
```

5. Add test cases in `/tests/basic.js` to ensure that the ported lib is importable and runnable by k6.
6. Update the homepage by running `yarn run generate-homepage`.
7. Verify that the new homepage `/lib/index.html` is legit (Quickly done by running `yarn run verify-homepage`).
8. Create a PR for it and wait for approval (NOTE: minified code will not be accepted for security reasons)
9. Get it merged to the main branch (This will push the updates to S3).
10. Browse to https://jslib.k6.io/{lib_name}/{desired_version}/index.js to verify that everything works as expected.

## Updating styling and layout of the "Homepage."

The homepage of https://jslib.k6.io live in the `/static` dir.\
The final `index.html` page gets generated by running `yarn run generate-homepage`.

Useful dev commands:

```bash
# Listen to file changes, restart dev server and serve index.html
yarn run develop-homepage

# Quickly serve index.html
yarn run verify-homepage

# Generate index.html
yarn run generate-homepage
```

## Installing new package via npm and automagically adding it to libs

The outcome of this might vary depending on the quality of the desired node_module you want to add.

The following command will try to:

1. Install the desired {package_name}
2. Copy the module to `/lib`
3. Update the homepage `/lib/index.html`

```bash
yarn run add-pkg {package_name}
```

Once run successfully, make sure that you do the following:

- Add test case in `/tests/basic.js` to ensure that the ported lib is importable and runnable by k6.
- Verify that the new homepage `/lib/index.html` is legit.

## Updating a version of a JS package listed in _package.json dependencies_

Some of the JS packages in `/lib/` can be libraries that exist on NPM today.
The following steps will help you add a specific (or latest) version of an existing npm package:

1. `yarn upgrade {my_package}@version` (for specific version) `yarn upgrade {my_package} --latest` (for the latest).
2. `yarn run copy-libs`

If all went well, the following should have happened:

- New version dir and entry file created `/lib/{my_package}/{new_version}/index.js`.
- New version entry added to `support.json` (see example below)

```javascript
{
  "my_package": [
    "1.0.2", // Previous version
    "2.0.0" // New version added by copy-libs command.
  ]
}
```

If not, you will have to manually create the new version as described [here](#how-to-add-a-new-version-of-an-existing-package).

Once a new version dir has been created and added to `supported.json`, it is time to:

3. Add a test case in `/tests/basic.js` to ensure that the added version is importable and runnable by k6.
4. Update the homepage by running `yarn run generate-homepage`.
5. Verify that the new homepage `/lib/index.html` is legit (Quickly done by running `yarn run verify-homepage`).
6. Create a PR and get it approved.
7. Merge main (This will push the updates to S3).
8. Browse to https://jslib.k6.io/{lib_name}/{desired_version}/index.js
